What ultimately makes networks interesting are the applications that use them.
David Clark. one of the key contributors to
Internet s design. once wrote. the current exponential growth of the network seems to show that connectivity is its own reward. and it is more valuable than any individual
application. such as male or the worldwide Webb.
Connectivity is the idea that two computers in different parts of the world can connect to one another and exchange data.
If you connect your computer to the Internet. you can suddenly talk with all of the other computers connected to the Internet.
Let's look at exactly what that means. and how some modern applications. the Worldwide Webb. skype and bit Torrent. use it.
The tremendous power of network applications is that you can have multiple computers. each with their own private data. each perhaps owned and controlled by different people exchange information. unlike your local applications. which can only access data that resides on your local system. networked applications can exchange data across the world.
E.g. think of using a web browser to read a magazine.
The server is run by the publisher and has which has all of the magazine articles.
And it might also have all the articles from past issues.
As articles are corrected or added. you can immediately see the newer versions in newer content.
Entire back catalog of articles might be too much free to download. so you can load them on demand.
If you didn't have a network. then you need someone to send you a DVD. or you as beastick with the latest issue.
So the basic model is that you have two computers. each running a program locally. and these two programs communicate over the network.
The most common communication model used is a bidirectional. reliable stream of bites.
So program A running on computer A can write data which goes over the network. such that then program B running on computer B can read it.
Similarly. program B can write data that program A can read.
There are other modes of communication. which will talk about later in the course. but a reliable. by directional bitestream is by far the most common one used in networks today.
Let's walk through what this looks like.
Computer B on the right is waiting for other computers to connect to it.
Computer A on the left wants to communicate with be E.G.. though it's drawn here as a server. it could be a mobile phone running a web browser.
A and B set up a connection.
Now. when a right state of the connection. this data travels over the network. and be can read it.
Similarly. if B right state of the connection. that date of travels over the network. and A can read it.
Either side can close the connection. e.g.. when the web browser is done requesting data from the web server. it can close the connection.
Similarly. if the server wants to. we can close the connection as well.
If you've ever seen an error message in a web browser saying. connection reset by peer. that's what this means.
The web server closed the connection when the web browser wasn't expecting it.
Of course. the server can refuse the connection as well.
You've probably seen connection refuse messages. or have a browser wait for a long time because the server isn't even responding with the refusal.
Now that we've seen the basic way networked applications communicate. let's look at our 1st example. the World Wide Webb.
The Worldwide Webb uses something called ACDP. which stands for Hypertext Transfer Protocol.
When you see ACTP coal and Slash slash in your browser. that means it's communicating using ACTP.
We'll dig much deeper to the details of HCTB later in the course.
We will cover applications. For now. I'm just going to give a very high level overview.
In HDP. a client opens a connection to a server and sends commands to it.
The most common command is Get. which requests a page.
HTTP was designed to be a document centric way for programs to communicate.
E.g. if I type HTTP. W-W-W. dot Stanford. I-E-D-U in my browser. the browser opens a connection to the server. W-W-W. does Stanford. D-E-D-U. and sends a get request for the root page of the site.
The server receives the request checks of its valid and the user can access that page and sends a response.
The response has an numeric code associated with. e.g.
if the server sends a 200 okay response to a get. this means that the request was accepted. and the rest of the response has the document data.
In the example of the ww dot Stanford. D-E-D webpage. a Twitter care response would include the hypertext that describes the main Stanford page. though other kinds of requests. such as put delete and info. as well as other responses. such as 400. which means that there was a bad request. may be was malformed. because 80 to be his document centre clients. client requests. name. a file.
HTP is all An Asky. Text.
Its human readable. E.g. The beginning of a gut request for Stanford looks like this.
The beginning of a response to a successful request looks like this.
The basic model is simple client.
A client sends a request by writing to the connection.
The server reads this request. process it and writes a response to the connection. which the client then reads.
Let's look at a 2nd application. bit Torrent.
Bit Torrent is a
program that allows people to share and exchange large files. unlike the Webb. where a client request documents from a server in bittorn. a client request documents from other clients. so their single client can request from many others.
In parallel. Bit torn breaks files up into chunks of data called pieces.
When a client downloads a complete piece from another client. it then tells other clients it has that piece. they can download it to.
These collections of collaborating clients are called swarms. so we talk about a client joining or leaving the swarm.
Bitchart uses the exact same mechanism as the World Wide Webb. are reliable by directional. bystream.
But it uses it in a slightly more complex way.
When the client wants a download a file. it 1st has to find something called a torrent file.
Usually you find this using the World Wide Webb and download it using you guessed it HTTP.
The torrent file describes some information about the data file you want a download.
It also tells bit torn about who the tracker is.
For that torrent. a tracker is a no that keeps track. hence the name of what clients are members of the swarm.
To join a torrent. your client contacts the tracker again over its EDP to request the list of other clients.
Your client opens connections to some of these other clients and starts requesting pieces of the file.
These clients in turn can request pieces on their own.
Furthermore. when a new client joins this form. the tracker might tell this new client to connect your client.
So rather than a single connection between a client and a server. you have a dense graph of connections between clients. dynamically exchanging data.
For a 3rd and final application. let's look at the Skype. the popular voice chat and video service.
Skype is a prietary system. Doesn't have any official documentation on documentation on how it works internally.
In 2008. some researchers a Columbia figured out mostly how it works by looking at wherein wind sky. clients send messages.
The messages were encrypted. those they couldn't look inside.
In 2011. however. a Theme Bushman of reverse engineered the protocol and published open source code. so now we have a better sense of how the protocol works in its most simple mode.
When you want to call someone in Skype. it's a simple client server exchange. sort of like HTTP.
You the collar open a connection to the recipient.
If the recipient accepts your call. you start exchanging voice video or chat data.
But unlike the web. where there's a client in a server. in the sky case. you have two clients.
So rather than having a personal computer request something from a dedicated server. you have two personal computers requesting data from each other.
This difference turns out of a really big implication to house quite Skype works.
The complication comes from something called a NAT. or network address translate.
That's are everywhere today. a small home wireless router than that.
When a mobile phone connects the Internet. it's behind a nap.
We'll cover them in greater detail litter in the course.
But for now. all you need to know is that if you're behind a net. then you can open connections out to the Internet. but other nodes on the Internet can't easily open connections to you.
In this example. this means that Client B can open connections to other notes freely. but it's very hard for other notes to open connections to Client B. that's what this red green gradient is showing.
Connections coming from the green side work fine. but connections coming from the red side don't.
So the complication here is that if client A wants to call client B. it can't open a connection.
It can't go through the NAP.
Skype has to work around this.
It does so using something called a rendezvous server.
When you log into Skype. your client opens connections to a network of control servers.
In this case. client B opens a connection to the rendezvous server.
This works fine because the server isn't behind a net. and so Client B can open connections without any problems.
When a client A calls Client B. it sends a message to the rendezvous server.
Since the server has an open connection to client B. it tells me that there's a call request for may call dialogue pops up on Client B If client BE accepts the call. then it opens a connection to Client A.
Client A was trying to open a connection to Client B. but since B was behind the net. it couldn't.
So instead. it sends a message to a computer that Client B is already connected to. which then asks Client B to open a connection back to client A.
Since Client A is behind the net. this connection can open normally.
This called a reverse connection. because it reverses the expected direction for initiating the connection.
Client A is trying to connect to client B. but instead client B opens a connection to client A. this happens in Skype. because Skype clients are typically personal machines.
It's rare for publicly accessible web servers to be behind nets.
Since you want the server to be accessed by over on the Internet. putting it behind and out is a bad idea.
Therefore. opening connection to web servers is easy.
Personal computers. however. often behind nets for security and other reasons that. for Skype has to incorporate some new communication patterns to work around.
So what does sky
do if both clients are behind that?
We can't reverse the connection. Client A can't open a connection to client B and Client B can't open a connection to client A.
To handle this case.
skype introduced a 2nd kind of server called a relay.
Relays can't be behind notes. If both client and client beer behind that. then they communicate through a relay.
They both open connections to the relay.
When client A sends data. really affords it two client B through the connection that be open.
Similarly. inclined B sends data. relay affords a decline A through the connection.
client. AO In summary. we've seen the most common communication models network applications are reliable by directional bitestream.
This allows two programs running on different computers to exchange data and abstracts away the entire network to a simple read write relationship.
Although it's a very simple communication model. it can be used in very inventive and complex ways.
We looked at three examples the world. like Webb. bit torn and Skype.
The world Doug. Webb is a client server model.
The client opens a connection to a server and equest documents.
The server is response with the document.
Bit Torrent is appear to pier model. where swarms of clients open connections to each other in exchange pieces of data. creating a dense network of connections.
Skype is a mix of the two.
When sky clients can communicate directly. they do soon appear to appear fashion.
But sometimes the clients aren't able to open connections directly. and instead go through rendezvous relay servers.
You can see how what looks like a very simple abstraction. a biodirectional. reliable bite stream. can be used in many interesting ways.
By changing how programs open connections and what different programs do. we can create complex applications ranging from document retrieval to swarming downloads to ib to lephony trackers.
And bittorn E.G. have very different data in a very different role in the clients. just as Skype has relays in rendezvous servers in addition to its Clients.